## Cost of Living Dashboard Proposal

#### Our role: Data Science Consultancy Firm contracted by the Government of Canada

#### Target Audience: Canadians who are looking to choose a city to live in based on affordability

With inflation at an all-time high and various rates of affordability across the country, many Canadians find themselves considering a relocation. With a lot of confusion surrounding the varying tax rates, cost of goods, rent, and other major expenditures across Canada, it is difficult for individuals to determine the affordability of different regions. If there was an interactive tool to outline the cost of major goods and price indices across different regions in Canada, it could help people to determine where they can afford to live given their specific needs. To address this, we propose building a data visualization dashboard to help Canadians, or others, filter by region, city, population, and more, to view the different levels of affordability. This will help people to visualize the differences between cities in affordability, while also personalizing to their specific needs with specific regions or goods. This tool will help advise individuals to determine the ideal Canadian location to reside in based on affordability and their personal needs. 

We will be visualizing a dataset containing the 119 largest cities across Canada. Each city contains information on 60 different variables indicating the cost of goods or other features such as population. The first 55 variables contain different prices (in $CAD) for different goods, including specific and general goods. For example, there are three prices for general goods such as a cheap meal, mid meal, and McDonald’s meal. There are also many other price points for specific goods such as white bread, a dozen eggs, 1kg of chicken, and other grocery staples. These are obviously all average prices for the location it is associated with. There are also goods other than grocery items, such as movie tickets, gas, taxi prices, different vehicle prices, internet prices and other utilities, gym memberships, school costs, various clothing items, and different sized rentals (no. of bedrooms) in various parts of the city (central or not). Average salary and mortgage details are also provided. In the last 5 variables, there is information for each city including the latitude, longitude, and population.

Target Audience Personal Description: tasks are indicated in [brackets]

Abigail is a recent nursing graduate and she is looking to find a job in an area where she can afford living expenses for herself, as well as pay back her student debt. She wants to be able to [analyze] the different costs and salaries of different cities that she could potentially live in. Since she will be working as a nurse, she is limited to locations in Ontario, due to the certification process with provincial health care, so she has to [filter] locations based on the region. When Abigail opens the Cost-of-Living Dashboard, she will see her personalization options on the left hand side, where she can filter by Ontario cities as well as her ideal population range. Living alone, housing costs can add up, so housing is an important variable to Abigail, so she selects ‘housing’ as a variable group to filter on. Since Abigail does not have a car, transportation is important to her, so she selects ‘transportation’ as a variable group to filter on as well. Now, she can see her personalized information on the right hand side of the dashboard. Abigail sees a list of all of the options of cities, ranked in descending order of affordability, based on her filtering criteria. She can also select two cities from this list and compare them to each other. Abigail sees London is high up on the list of affordable cities, and when she compares London to Toronto in terms of housing costs, she sees that London is much more affordable in terms of those variables. From this information, Abigail is able to decide that the best city for her, in terms of her needs and affordability, is London. Abigail is very happy to know that moving to London will be a great fit for her, and she is relieved to know that it is affordable for her and will help her to start her life off financially sound. 

